# Generative AI for enterprise and government

Today SambaNova announced SambaNova Suite for generative AI, the first
generative AI platform specifically optimized for enterprises and government
organizations. SambaNova Suite is a collection of the highest accuracy
generative AI models which can be deployed directly in a customer’s own
environment, and can be further adapted using their data for even greater
accuracy.

So what do we mean when we say generative AI “specifically optimized for
enterprise and government organizations”? The answer starts with the
fundamental differences between consumer and enterprise generative AI.

The reality is that consumer use cases for generative AI are vastly different
than for enterprises and government organizations. While much of the viral
applications for generative AI in the consumer space have involved fun content
or discussions about the impact on school work, enterprises and government
organizations are interested in optimizing business use cases, such as their
contact center and customer experience, or analyzing and processing complex
documents.

These are complex use cases that pose several fundamental challenges for the
consumer generative AI tools that have been dominating the headlines.

The first challenge is the high level of accuracy required by enterprises and
government use cases. For example, a frequent area of discussion related to
consumer generative AI is when models ‘hallucinate’, or make up an answer to a
question because it thinks that is the correct answer. In consumer
applications, this can be good for a laugh. In the enterprise, hallucinations
could have a catastrophic impact on customer trust and a company’s brand.

The second challenge is the strict security and privacy requirements of both
enterprises and government agencies. Because many consumer generative AI tools
are delivered through a cloud API on a shared ‘model backbone’ there are
significant data privacy concerns about sending sensitive data outside of an
organization’s firewall. Additionally, this data is often sent to a generative
AI model which is shared with other companies, including potential
competitors.

The third challenge is that generative AI will need to evolve according to
open standards to find long term success in the enterprise and with government
organizations. This is required both so these tools can be integrated with the
existing technology infrastructure of these organizations, and also to help
them avoid vendor lock-in. However, consumer generative AI tools are often
closed and fully proprietary systems.

With SambaNova Suite, we are empowering enterprises and government
organizations to take advantage of the full potential of generative AI to
solve their biggest business and operational challenges, while delivering the
flexibility, privacy, and security required of modern technologies and tools.
At SambaNova, we think that the generative AI revolution is just beginning,
and we are excited to work together with our customers and partners to
discover the full exciting potential of this transformational technology.

You can learn more about how SambaNova is addressing these challenges and
delivering the highest accuracy generative AI, specifically optimized for
enterprise and government, by visiting our official SambaNova Suite [launch
announcement page](http://sambanova.ai/launch23).

![](https://sambanova.ai/wp-
content/uploads/2023/02/Singh_PD_06_2x3-e1677582933865-150x150.jpg)

**PD Singh**

PD is VP of Software Products at SambaNova Systems.

[